[Music]
hello very good morning welcome to
breakfast with dan walker and louise
minchin
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning the government says the uk's
vaccination program remains on track
after johnson and johnson suspends a
planned rollout
of its covid vaccine in the u.s and
europe
pressure builds on david cameron as mps
prepare to vote
on a parliamentary inquiry into the
former prime minister's lobbying
the charity shop boom they report record
sales as shoppers head back to the high
streets to hunt out a bargain
another step back to normality as hot
air balloon
flights resume so come fly with us
the uk vaccine rollout wouldn't have
been as successful without brexit the
view of sir james dyson speaking
exclusively to breakfast about leaving
the eu
jobs here and abroad and who does the
vacuuming at home
there was a late scare for chelsea but
they are through to the semi-finals of
the champions league
for the first time in seven years
good morning from the roof of
broadcasting house in london where it's
a chilly start
it's a chilly start with some frost
across the board many of us will have a
dry and sunny day with a few showers
but cool along the north sea coastline
i'll have all the details
later in the programme
[Music]
good morning top story for you on
wednesday the 14th of april as the
department of health
insists that its target to offer a
covered vaccine to all adults in the uk
by the end of july remains on track
after johnson and johnson suspended a
planned rollout of its jab in the u.s
south africa and europe it follows
reports of very rare blood clotting in
some people who've had the jab in
america
the uk's ordered 30 million doses of the
vaccine and the medical regulator says
it will evaluate safety reports robustly
before approving its use
our medical editor fergus walsh reports
an abundance of caution was cited by u.s
health officials
as the reason why they paused the use of
the single shot
johnson and johnson kovid jab
the vaccine which in europe is branded
as
janssen was approved in the u.s in late
february
since then there have been six incidents
of very rare clots in the brain
out of 6.8 million doses so less than
one case
per million people immunized all were
women under 50
one of them died and one is critically
ill
i think this is an unusual occurrence of
a serious
adverse event that you want to make sure
before you go forward
you investigate it thoroughly and that's
exactly what they're doing they're
pausing
so that they can look at it more
carefully similar
very rare clots have occurred with the
oxford astrazeneca jab
and scientists are investigating whether
this type of vaccine technology
could be implicated 30 million doses
of the j j jansen vaccine are on order
for the uk
although it's yet to be approved it's
hoped the delay in the rollout
won't slow the vaccination drive here
these are the vaccines which are
which are global workhorses of the of
the vaccination program
it's a lot of vaccine that potentially
might not be used
i think that would be tragic because is
you're much much more likely to
have a severe adverse outcome if you
catch covid i mean this is the thing
which is much more likely to cause clots
than um than the vaccine the biggest
concern
is globally the plan was to immunize
1 billion people worldwide with the
vaccine this year
if that's disrupted it will slow efforts
to finally bring the pandemic under
control
fergus walsh bbc news a major uk trial
looking at where the covid vaccines can
be mixed meaning different ones are used
for first
and second doses is going to be expanded
adults over 50
who've already had the first dose of
pfizer or astrazeneca can apply to take
part in the study as our health reporter
michelle roberts can explain
currently the nhs offers people an
identical covid19 vaccine for their
first
and second doses but some experts
believe switching to a different brand
of vaccine for the second dose
might give broader and longer lasting
protection against the pandemic virus
and
new variants of it as well as offer more
flexibility to vaccine rollout more than
800 people have been helping researchers
investigate this in a trial called
comcove they've received two doses of
either pfizer
astrazeneca or a combination of both to
see which works
best for immunity results from this
first stage
are expected next month but the
investigators now hope to recruit around
a thousand people aged 50 or older
to take part and test more vaccines in
different combinations
that includes the new moderna vaccine
and the novovax one that's expected to
be approved soon in the uk
dosing with one then dosing with the
other and that would give a lot more
flexibility if there was any problems
with supply for one vaccine for example
or you get a change in recommendations
for different age groups
then if someone's been primed with one
vaccine they're not locked into getting
the same vaccine for the second dose
and we will be testing those uh
combinations against the new
variants as they come through so the
blood tests we obtain we'll test them
against the new variants to see
potentially if they offer any broader
protection
against multiple different strains
volunteers need to have already had
one kovid jab on the nhs in the past few
months
and be willing to travel to a regional
nhs hospital trust site
in england to take part they'll have
blood taken to check how well vaccines
trigger an immune response
the study will run for a year but there
should be some reportable findings by
june or july to shape how the uk
and the world continues to protect
populations
against this deadly virus michelle
roberts bbc news
there will be a debate in parliament
today to decide if there should be a
full
inquiry into the links between the
former prime minister david cameron
and the failed finance firm green sill
capital
boris johnson insists the independent
inquiry he's ordered into mr cameron's
lobbying will have
carte blanche to talk to anyone but
labour says the review
has all the hallmarks of a cover-up our
political correspondent damian
gramaticus reports
the actions of a former prime minister
and those of current ministers
labour says they've brought the shadow
of a scandal that parliament must
investigate
or it fears the review boris johnson has
set up will be a white hall
white wash day by day new revelations
are coming out about
green sill we need a proper inquiry to
get to the bottom of this
not the half-hearted half inquiry that
the government have announced so far
the latest revelations that the former
head of government procurement began
working part-time for green sill capital
the company at the heart of recent
lobbying concerns while he was still a
civil servant
bill cruthers says his move in 2015
followed established procedure
was approved and he believes not
uncommon
labour says the real questions are for
the conservatives
how in 2011 the financier lex greensell
became an unpaid advisor in the cameron
government how in 2018 his firm was
given lucrative work
linked to nhs payments and his company
hired david cameron
now out of office who the next year
arranged a private drink with matt
hancock the health secretary
and mr greensell and last year he texted
rishi sunak the chancellor
seeking access for green sill to
government covid funds
this was david cameron and matt hancock
working for him
more than 10 years ago mr cameron has
said he broke no rules
mr hancock that he reported his meeting
with greensell
and acted properly the chancellor
says he's been open too he's released
private texts he sent to mr cameron
in which he says he pushed the treasury
to help greensell
and the government says its inquiry can
ask anybody
whatever it needs but labour insists
what happened behind closed doors was
cronyism
and an independent inquiry is needed
damon gramaticus bbc news westminster
protesters have clashed with police in
minneapolis for the third night in a row
after a black man was shot dead on
sunday
the policewoman who fatally shot dante
wright has resigned
along with the police chief it comes as
the trial of the officer accused of
killing george floyd
in the same city begins hearing from
defense witnesses our north america
correspondent barbara
usher has more
[Applause]
for a third night police drove back
protesters venting their anger over the
shooting of another black man
hit in the chest by a policewoman who
confused her gun with her taser
in the middle of the trial for the
officer accused of killing george floyd
do you know the difference between a gun
and a taser
under pressure the policewoman resigned
she was a 26-year veteran of the force
followed by the police chief we're here
and we will fight for justice for this
family
just like we're fighting for our brother
george floyd's family has come together
in solidarity with the relatives of the
dead man
dante wright sharing their quest for
justice
and their loss i thought somebody was
playing a joke on me
it hurt me to my heart
don't say was a beautiful child
he might not have been in asia but he
was our angel
our angel he belonged he belonged to us
testimony will be the truth and nothing
but the truth
inside the courtroom the defense took
over after the prosecution rested its
case
more footage of george floyd from police
body cameras was shown to jurors
the defense is arguing that it was a
drug overdose which caused his death
rather than excessive force by the
officer who restrained him
by kneeling on his neck testimony is
expected to wrap by the end of the week
and the jury will begin deliberations
shortly after that
there's a lot at stake in what it
decides
the authorities are bracing for the
possibility of further unrest
once there's a verdict they were hoping
that the resignation of the police
officials would help to defuse the anger
but so far that it failed to stop the
protests
barbara plant usher bbc news minneapolis
the queen has returned to royal duties
four days after the death of the duke of
edinburgh to mark the retirement of her
household's most senior official
the monarch held her first in-person
event to host a ceremony
at windsor as william peale formerly
stood down
as lord chamberlain the earl had
overseen the arrangements for the duke's
funeral
the world's longest rabbit has gone
missing and his thoughts have been
stolen from its enclosure
that is a long rabbit isn't it that's
darius yeah he's a continental giant
rabbit measuring four feet long
who disappeared from his home in stolten
in worcestershire on saturday night
his owner annette edwards has offered a
2 000 reward for his return and said it
was a very
sad day he claimed the guinness world
record for the longest rabbit alive
back in 2010.
i didn't know there was a two things
there one i didn't know there was a
longest rabbit award and it seems and
it's 11
what is it in 20 what do you say 20 was
it 27
yeah wow long long lasting and hope
hopefully he'll get back home
if you've got a long rabbit give it back
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news